KEP-4680: Add Resource Health Status to the Pod Status for Device Plugin and DRA (#4681)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-node/4680-add-resource-health-to-pod-status/README.md

```
	// AllocatedResources represents the compute resources allocated for this container by the
	// node. Kubelet sets this value to Container.Resources.Requests upon successful pod admission
	// and after successfully admitting desired pod resize.
	// +featureGate=InPlacePodVerticalScaling
	// +optional
	AllocatedResources ResourceList `json:"allocatedResources,omitempty" protobuf:"bytes,10,rep,name=allocatedResources,casttype=ResourceList,castkey=ResourceName"`

	// Resources represents the compute resource requests and limits that have been successfully
	// enacted on the running container after it has been started or has been successfully resized.
	// +featureGate=InPlacePodVerticalScaling
	// +optional
	Resources *ResourceRequirements `json:"resources,omitempty" protobuf:"bytes,11,opt,name=resources"`
```

One field reflects the resource requests and limits and the other actual allocated resources.

This structure will contain standard resources as well as extended resources. As noted in the comment: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/124227#issuecomment-2130503713, it is only logical to also include the status of those allocated resources. 

> The proposal is to keep this structure as-is to simplify parsing of well-known ResourceList data type by various consumers. Typical scenario would be to compare if the AllocatedResources match the desired state.

Reviewer: Would it be useful to surface a status condition that rolls up the state of all AllocatedResources?

Author: You can correlate with AllocatedResources by `ResourceName `. I propose to keep the `AllocatedResources ` as is as it is a well-known type that many systems may already have parsing for

The proposal is to introduce an additional field:

```
// AllocatedResourcesStatus represents the status of various resources
// allocated for this Pod.

> AllocatedResourcesStatus ResourcesStatus 

Reviewer 2: Why not `DeviceStatuses` to match `ContainerStatuses` or even just `Devices` ?

Author: If we will add CPUs in future, would it fit under devices? I don't really care, just wanted symmetry with the `AllocatedResources` field. Would you suggest to rename?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand the question - what does CPU have to do with this?

Author: We have CPU Manager. When Pods are assigned to CPUs we may want to add a status for cases when CPU that was assigned to the Pod went offline.

CPU is also a device, so I am fine renaming. Is it ok that we identify devices by Resource Name?

Author: Keeping it "resource". We can change a decision in implementation stage.

> type ResourcesStatus map[ResourceName]ResourceStatus

Reviewer 2: We don't usually do maps, so I think this would be a list-map struct.

type ResourceStatus struct {
    // map of unique Resource ID to its status

>     Resources map[ResourceID] ResourceStatus

Reviewer 3: how do you obtain ResourceID and map to a device?

Reviewer 4: Furthermore, what does "resourceID" mean int eh context of DRA?

Reviewer 5: Are you referring to device id here? https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/staging/src/k8s.io/kubelet/pkg/apis/deviceplugin/v1beta1/api.proto#L102-L106

Is that something that should be exposed to end users? e.g. if device plugin exposes some random GUID it would be hard to diagnose, it seems it would require device plugin to expose some ID name / ID that has some semantic meaning.

Reviewer 6: For DRA, we will have `<driver name>/<node name>/<device name>` in 1.31 which has some meaning for certain devices. But not everything is using such an identifier.

The main identifier in the kubelet <-> DRA driver gRPC is the claim UID/name/namespace. A claim then may stand for several different devices. But surfacing that here is probably not useful.

Perhaps we can limit this KEP to those DRA devices which have a simple string identifier, like the one above? I'm still not sure how to properly define the format of `ResourceID` in a way that it can be parsed reliably, though.

Author: Starting with the device plugin sounds like a good option. I added a note to the ResourceID that it must not be compared between Pods and should only be unique for the lifetime of the Pod.

Reviewer 6: The current thinking is that DRA will have a unique device ID string for all devices. The problem with `ResourceID` is that it could be an ID from different sub-systems and those sub-systems have different IDs.

So perhaps `ResourceID` needs to be defined as:
- `dra:<driver name>[/<pool name>]/<device name>`: such a device can be looked up in the information published by that DRA driver to learn more about it.
- `deviceplugin:<something>` - but what is that `<something>`?

What this KEP needs to define is what a consumer can do with `ResourceID`. If it's an opaque string, then what is the purpose of providing the status when no-one know what it is the status of?

Author: Thank you! Updated based on suggestion

    
    // allow to extend this struct in future with the overall health fields or things like Device Plugin version
}

type ResourceID string

type ResourceStatus struct {
    // can be one of:
    //  - Healthy: operates as normal
    //  - Unhealthy: reported unhealthy. We consider this a temporary health issue since we do not mechanism today to distinguish temporary and permanent issues.
    //  - Unknown: The status cannot be determined. For example, Device Plugin got unregistered and hasn't been re-registered since.
    Status string
}
```

***Is there any guarantee that the AllocatedResourcesStatus will be updated before Container crashed and unscheduled?***

> No, there is no guarantee that the Device Plugin/DRA will detect device going unhealthy earlier than the Pod. Once device got unhealthy, container may crash and being marked as Failed already.

Reviewer 5: > Once device got unhealthy, container may crash and being marked as Failed already.

This would only happen if the restartPolicy of the pod would be Never right? Otherwise the pod will be in crash loop?

Author: yes. I added it here to highlight the fact that it will not be easy to use this status for https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3329 as that KEP uses jobs with restartPolicy=Never. Let me add it here explicitly

The proposal is to update the Pod Status with the device status even if the pod has been marked as Failed already, but still known to the kubelet.

***Do we need the CheckDeviceHealth call introduced to the Device Plugin to work around the limitation above?***

We may consider this as a future improvement. 

***Should we introduce a permanent failure status?***

We may consider this as a future improvement. 

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

- User scheduled a Pod using the GPU device
- When GPU device fails, user sees the Pod is in crash loop backoff
- User checks the Pod Status using `kubectl describe pod`
- User sees the pod status indicating that the GPU device is not healthy

> - User or some (custom for now) controller deletes the Pod and replicaset reschedules it on another available GPU

Reviewer 5: > (custom for now) controller deletes the Pod

If kubelet knows the device is unhealthy would it make sense to mark the pod as Failed? If the kubelet knows the device is unhealthy; what is the benefit of keeping the pod in a crash loop?

Author: I want to minimize changes taken in a single KEP. My reasoning here - what if device only needed during pod initialization (some crypto thing) and pod can run normally after? What if one device going down is not disrupting the whole Pod and it can keep running with limited capacity on smaller number of devices?

Changing behavior in this KEP will need to account for cases like above and I beliebe it will lead to larger discussion

The proposal is to keep this structure as-is to simplify parsing of well-known ResourceList data type by various consumers. Typical scenario would be to compare if the AllocatedResources match the desired state.

The proposal is to introduce an additional field:

```
// AllocatedResourcesStatus represents the status of various resources
// allocated for this Pod.
AllocatedResourcesStatus ResourcesStatus 

type ResourcesStatus map[ResourceName]ResourceStatus

type ResourceStatus struct {
    // map of unique Resource ID to its status with the following restrictions:
    //  - ResourceID must uniquely identify the Resource allocated to the Pod on the Node for the lifetime of a Pod.
    //  - ResourceID may not make sense outside the Pod. Often it will identify the resource on the Node, but not guaranteed.
    //  - ResourceID of one Pod must not be compared with the ResourceID of other Pod.
    // In case of Device Plugin ResourceID maps to DeviceID.
    Resources map[ResourceID] ResourceStatus
    
    // allow to extend this struct in future with the overall health fields or things like Device Plugin version
}

type ResourceID string

> type ResourceStatus struct {

Reviewer 6: This type has the same `ResourceStatus` name as the type above.

Author: Renamed to `ResourceHealth`

    // can be one of:
    //  - Healthy: operates as normal
    //  - Unhealthy: reported unhealthy. We consider this a temporary health issue
    //               since we do not mechanism today to distinguish
    //               temporary and permanent issues.
    //  - Unknown: The status cannot be determined.
    //             For example, Device Plugin got unregistered and hasn't been re-registered since.
    //
    // In future we may want to introduce the PermanentlyUnhealthy Status.

>     Status string

Author: Do you mean some existing `Condition` type? Like similar to PodCondition with the last transition time and such?

>     Status string

Reviewer 7: Yes. Is there a reason not to? I guess maybe it's overkill?

>     Status string

Author: good idea, done

What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

There is not many risks of this KEP. The biggest risk is that Device Plugins will not be
able to detect device health reliable and fast enough to assign this status to the
Pods, marked as `restartPolicy=Never`. End users will expect this field and the
missing health information will confuse them.

## Design Details

### Device Plugin implementation details

Kubelet already keeps track of healthy and unhealthy devices as well as the mapping of those devices to Pods.

One improvement will be needed is to distinguish unhealthy devices (marked unhealthy explicitly) and when device plugin was unregistered.

NVIDIA device plugin has the checkHealth implementation: https://github.com/NVIDIA/k8s-device-plugin/blob/eb3a709b1dd82280d5acfb85e1e942024ddfcdc6/internal/rm/health.go#L39 that has more information than simple “Unhealthy”.

We should consider introducing another field to the Status that will be a free form error information as a future improvement.

> ### DRA implementation details

Reviewer 7: add a newline here

Today DRA does not return the health of the device back to kubelet. The proposal is to extend the

> type `NamedResourcesInstance` (from [pkg/apis/resource/namedresources.go](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/790dfdbe386e4a115f41d38058c127d2dd0e6f44/pkg/apis/resource/namedresources.go#L29-L37)) to include the Health field the same way it is done in 

Reviewer 7: This is not part of our current KEP updates. You don't actually need this reported to the control plane for this KEP to work, right? You just need to be able to query the DRA driver for the info?

cc @pohly

Reviewer 4: The device plugin API doesn't (technically) report health status either.

The "health" of a device is instead inferred as follows:
* A persistent `ListAndWatch()` call is made from the kubelet to a plugin, over which a stream of device IDs is passed and then tracked by the kubelet
* The initial call establishes a set of "healthy" devices that the plugin knows about and tracks
* At any point in time the plugin ay decide to send an updated stream of device IDs
* For each update, the list of already tracked device IDs is compared against the new list
* If a previously tracked device ID is missing -- it is marked as unhealthy
* If a new device ID is now present, the kubelet begins to track it (as healthy initially)

In 1.30 we had a similar `ListAndWatch()` API, from which we could have inferred something very analogous to the above. However, we are removing this in 1.31, so will need to provide something different.

Does it makes sense to keep some sort of stream like this, but make it _*just*_ about health status information? Meaning we stream back a list of deviceIDs (of the form `<driver name>/<pool name>/<device name>`) along with some extra metadata indicating its health status. Just as before, a device completely disappearing would still need to trigger some state change, but now more informative information could be attached in the form of metadata when a device isn't necessarily gone, but also isn't operating as it should be.

Reviewer 6: > Does it makes sense to keep some sort of stream like this, but make it just about health status information? 

Yes. It can be in an optional gRPC interface, so DRA drivers can opt into this by implementing it.

I would limit it to "prepared" devices and include the claim name/namespace/UID. That should be enough information for kubelet to correlate with the pods for which the claim was prepared and then post that information for those pods.

Reviewer 4: So a separate interface, not tied to the one that defined `NodePrepareResources()` and `NodeUnprepareResources()`?

Author: Added

type ResourceID string

type ResourceHealth struct {
    // List of conditions with the transition times
    Conditions []ResourceHealthCondition
}

// This condition type is replicating other condition types exposed by various status APIs
type ResourceHealthCondition struct {
    // can be one of:
    //  - Healthy: operates as normal
    //  - Unhealthy: reported unhealthy. We consider this a temporary health issue
    //               since we do not mechanism today to distinguish
    //               temporary and permanent issues.
    //  - Unknown: The status cannot be determined.
    //             For example, Device Plugin got unregistered and hasn't been re-registered since.
    //
    // In future we may want to introduce the PermanentlyUnhealthy Status.
    Type string 

    // Status of the condition, one of True, False, Unknown.
    Status ConditionStatus
    // The last time the condition transitioned from one status to another.
    // +optional
    LastTransitionTime metav1.Time
    // The reason for the condition's last transition.
    // +optional

>     Reason string

Author: Yes, just status is reasonable. This is what DevicePlugin gives us today. Also this is copied from other similar Condition statuses like NodeCondition and such

    // A human readable message indicating details about the transition.
    // +optional

>     Message string

Reviewer 8: shadow prod readiness review

optionals should be a pointer type [ref](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md#optional-vs-required)?

Author: I would think we can address this as part of implementation. As I mentioned before, this is copied. So I want to keep it consistent with other types

No

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

Yes, with no side effect except of missing the new field in pod status.

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

The pod status will be updated again.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

Nothing is planned.

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

No

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

N/A

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

Will be tested, but we do not expect any issues.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No

### Monitoring Requirements

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

Check the Pod Status.

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

- [X] API pod.status

###### What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?

> 

Author: Added N/A.

> 

Reviewer 9: A note here on _why_ we don't think this is applicable is appropriate here. It's not immediately obvious to me.

```
// AllocatedResourcesStatus represents the status of various resources
// allocated for this Pod.
AllocatedResourcesStatus ResourcesStatus 

type ResourcesStatus map[ResourceName]ResourceStatus

type ResourceStatus struct {
    // map of unique Resource ID to its health.
    // At a minimum, ResourceID must uniquely identify the Resource
    // allocated to the Pod on the Node for the lifetime of a Pod.
    // See ResourceID type for it's definition.
    Resources map[ResourceID] ResourceHealth
    
    // allow to extend this struct in future with the overall health fields or things like Device Plugin version
}

// ResourceID is calculated based on the source of this resource health information.
// For DevicePlugin:
//   deviceplugin:DeviceID, where DeviceID is from the Device structure of DevicePlugin's ListAndWatchResponse type: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/eda1c780543a27c078450e2f17d674471e00f494/staging/src/k8s.io/kubelet/pkg/apis/deviceplugin/v1alpha/api.proto#L61-L73
// DevicePlugin ID is usually a constant for the lifetime of a Node and typically can be used to uniquely identify the device on the node.
// For DRA:

> //   dra:<driver name>[/<pool name>]/<device name>: such a device can be looked up in the information published by that DRA driver to learn more about it. It is designed to be globally unique in a cluster.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
//   dra:<driver name>/<pool name>/<device name>: such a device can be looked up in the information published by that DRA driver to learn more about it. It is designed to be globally unique in a cluster.
```

In the latest KEP revision, we no longer allow an empty pool name.

I know I proposed it, but I am not sure whether such a string format will pass API review. The alternative is a separate "type" field which replaces the prefix. Can be clarified during API review of the actual implementation.

You also need to consider how much validation you want to add for this.

I can put a `ValidateDRADeviceID` function into some shared package for this.

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

The feature exposes a new field based on information the Device Plugin already exposes. There will be no dependency on upgrade/downgrade, feature will either work or not.

DRA implementation requires DRA interfaces change. DRA is in alpha and in active development. The feature will follow the DRA ugrade/downgrade strategy.

### Version Skew Strategy

There is no issue with the version skew. Kubelet that will expose this flag will
always be the same version of behind the API, which introduced this new field.

## Production Readiness Review Questionnaire

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

Simple change of a feature gate will either enable or disable this feature.

###### How can this feature be enabled / disabled in a live cluster?

- [X] Feature gate (also fill in values in `kep.yaml`)
  - Feature gate name: `ResourceHealthStatus`
  - Components depending on the feature gate: `kubelet` and `kube-apiserver`

###### Does enabling the feature change any default behavior?

No

###### Can the feature be disabled once it has been enabled (i.e. can we roll back the enablement)?

> Yes, with no side effect except of missing the new field in pod status.

Reviewer 9: When the feature gate is disabled any instances of the new field already written to pod status will continue to exist.  The typical behavior in this case is to add field wiping such that when the feature is disabled, the field is dropped from writes that contain the new fields if it is not already set, and any code that reads the new fields ignores it.  Note that this does mean that if the feature is turned off and then turned on again, any resources with the new fields will keep the values from when the feature was first enabled.

Author: Added a few words here

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

> The pod status will be updated again.

Reviewer 9: And any resources where the field set before the rollback will continue to have it (unless it was explicitly removed by a update request)

Author: added

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

> Nothing is planned.

Reviewer 9: This is required for alpha for features with new fields like this.  For this KEP update, let's list out what the rough test coverage should be. 

Here's an example of the cases we typcally cover, from a simple field addition: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/122717/files#diff-c4fc49b3c4f7fe0c2f6aa7c99c42cd28d1234efe3c143d05dd126808714b155bR700-R1298

Author: Added to the e2e section

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

No

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

> N/A

Reviewer 9: I'd expect this to apply here.  If the implementation has a defect and something stops working correctly, what are some of the metrics most likely to make the problem visible?

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

Will be tested, but we do not expect any issues.

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No

### Monitoring Requirements

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

Check the Pod Status.

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

- [X] API pod.status

###### What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?

N/A

###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

N/A

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

> N/A

Reviewer 9: I think this is applicable, but maybe we already have the metrics we need.  I.e. If we were to get a report of workload misbehavior with this feature enabled, what data would we consider the most valuable for understanding the issue better?

  - [ ] (R) Minimum Two Week Window for GA e2e tests to prove flake free
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria is in place
  - [ ] (R) [all GA Endpoints](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/pull/1806) must be hit by [Conformance Tests](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/conformance-tests.md) 
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review completed
- [ ] (R) Production readiness review approved
- [ ] "Implementation History" section is up-to-date for milestone
- [ ] User-facing documentation has been created in [kubernetes/website], for publication to [kubernetes.io]
- [ ] Supporting documentation—e.g., additional design documents, links to mailing list discussions/SIG meetings, relevant PRs/issues, release notes

<!--
**Note:** This checklist is iterative and should be reviewed and updated every time this enhancement is being considered for a milestone.
-->

[kubernetes.io]: https://kubernetes.io/
[kubernetes/enhancements]: https://git.k8s.io/enhancements
[kubernetes/kubernetes]: https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes
[kubernetes/website]: https://git.k8s.io/website

## Summary

> Today it is hard to impossible to know when the Pod is using a device that has failed or is temporarily unhealthy. This makes troubleshooting of Pod crashes harder. This KEP is to fix this by exposing device health via Pod Status. The KEP is intentionally scoped small, but can be extended later to expose more device information to troubleshoot Pod devices placement issues (for example, validating that related Pods are allocated on connected devices).

Reviewer 10: hard or impossible

> Today it is hard to impossible to know when the Pod is using a device that has failed or is temporarily unhealthy. This makes troubleshooting of Pod crashes harder. This KEP is to fix this by exposing device health via Pod Status. The KEP is intentionally scoped small, but can be extended later to expose more device information to troubleshoot Pod devices placement issues (for example, validating that related Pods are allocated on connected devices).

Reviewer 10: troubleshooting Pod crashes hard.

Reviewer 10: This KEP aims to fix this..

Author: applied

## Motivation

> Device Plugin and DRA do not have a good failure handling strategy defined. With proliferation of accelerated workloads, variable quality of devices, and overcommitting of data centers on power, there are cases when accelerated can fail temporarily or permanently and k8s need to handle this natively.

Reviewer 10: typo: acclererated. Maybe could change that to `device`

Today, the typical design is for jobs consuming a failing accelerator to fail itself with the specific error code whenever possible. For the inference of long running workloads, k8s will keep restarting the workload without reallocating it on a different device. So container will be in crash loop backoff with limited information on why it is crashing.

People develop strategies to deal with such situations. Exposing unhealthy devices in Pod Status will provide a generic way to understand that the failure is related to the unhealthy device and be able to respond to this properly.

### Goals

> - Expose device health information (served by Device Plugin or DRA) in a Pod Status and events.

Reviewer 10: a Pod Status -> `Pod Status`

- Expose any other device information beyond the health.
- Expose CPU assignment of the pod by CPU manager or any other resources assignment by other managers.

## Proposal

### PodStatus.AllocatedResourcesStatus

As part of the InPlacePodVerticalScaling KEP, the two new fields were introduced in Pod Status to reflect the currently allocated resources for the Pod:

```
	// AllocatedResources represents the compute resources allocated for this container by the
	// node. Kubelet sets this value to Container.Resources.Requests upon successful pod admission
	// and after successfully admitting desired pod resize.
	// +featureGate=InPlacePodVerticalScaling
	// +optional
	AllocatedResources ResourceList `json:"allocatedResources,omitempty" protobuf:"bytes,10,rep,name=allocatedResources,casttype=ResourceList,castkey=ResourceName"`

	// Resources represents the compute resource requests and limits that have been successfully
	// enacted on the running container after it has been started or has been successfully resized.
	// +featureGate=InPlacePodVerticalScaling
	// +optional
	Resources *ResourceRequirements `json:"resources,omitempty" protobuf:"bytes,11,opt,name=resources"`
```

> One field reflects the resource requests and limits and another an actual allocated resources.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
One field reflects the resource requests and limits and the other actual allocated resources.
```

This structure will contain standard resources as well as extended resources. As noted in the comment: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/124227#issuecomment-2130503713, it is only logical to also include the status of those allocated resources. 

The proposal is to keep this structure as-is to simplify parsing of well-known ResourceList data type by various consumers. Typical scenario would be to compare if the AllocatedResources match the desired state.

The proposal is to introduce an additional field:

```
// AllocatedResourcesStatus represents the status of various resources

> 	// allocated for this Pod.
> 	AllocatedResourcesStatus ResourcesStatus 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
// allocated for this Pod.
AllocatedResourcesStatus ResourcesStatus 
```

type ResourcesStatus map[ResourceName]ResourceStatus

type ResourceStatus struct {

>     // map of unique Resource ID to it’s status

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    // map of unique Resource ID to its status
```

    Resources map[ResourceID] ResourceStatus
    
    // allow to extend this struct in future with the overall health fields or things like Device Plugin version
}

type ResourceID string

type ResourceStatus struct {
    // can be one of:
    //  - Healthy: operates as normal
    //  - Unhealthy: reported unhealthy. We consider this a temporary health issue since we do not mechanism today to distinguish temporary and permanent issues.
    //  - Unknown: The status cannot be determined. For example, Device Plugin got unregistered and hasn't been re-registered since.
    Status string
}
```

> ***Is there guarantee that the AllocatedResourcesStatus will be updated before Container crashed and unscheduled?***

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
***Is there any guarantee that the AllocatedResourcesStatus will be updated before Container crashed and unscheduled?***
```

No, there is no guarantee that the Device Plugin/DRA will detect device going unhealthy earlier than the Pod. Once device got unhealthy, container may crash and being marked as Failed already.

The proposal is to update the Pod Status with the device status even if the pod has been marked as Failed already, but still known to the kubelet.

***Do we need the CheckDeviceHealth call introduced to the Device Plugin to work around the limitation above?***

We may consider this as a future improvement. 

***Should we introduce a permanent failure status?***

We may consider this as a future improvement. 

### Device Plugin implementation details

Kubelet already keeps track of healthy and unhealthy devices as well as the mapping of those devices to Pods.

One improvement will be needed is to distinguish unhealthy devices (marked unhealthy explicitly) and when device plugin was unregistered.

NVIDIA device plugin has the checkHealth implementation: https://github.com/NVIDIA/k8s-device-plugin/blob/eb3a709b1dd82280d5acfb85e1e942024ddfcdc6/internal/rm/health.go#L39 that has more information than simple “Unhealthy”.

> We should consider introducing another field to the Status that will be a free form error information as a future improvement.

Reviewer 10: Curious about thoughts from device vendors on this. @klueska @kad

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

- User scheduled a Pod using the GPU device
- When GPU device fails, user see the Pod is in crash loop backoff
- User checks the Pod Status using `kubectl describe pod`

> - User see the pod status indicating that the GPU device is not healthy

Reviewer 10: see -> sees

> - User deletes the Pod and replicaset reschedules it on another available GPU

Reviewer 10: User or some controller.
